	Comparison of Chavez/Richwine: Though much better educated than their immigrant parents, the Hispanic second generation drops out of high school at more than twice the white rate and graduates from college at less than 60 percent of the white rate. Though still relatively poor, second-generation men make considerable progress, increasing their average income to around 80 percent of the white average.

	Richwine: -- The concept of “IQ.” The inventors of the IQ test claimed it measured “innate intelligence.” But of course what the test really measures is test-taking ability. The problems with all the work purporting to link “race” and “intelligence” have been well-known for decades. The average IQ of immigrants in the United States is substantially lower than that of the white native population, and the difference is likely to persist over several generations. The consequences are a lack of socioeconomic assimilation among low-IQ immigrant groups, more underclass behavior, less social trust, and an increase in the proportion of unskilled workers in the American labor market. Selecting high-IQ immigrants would ameliorate these problems in the U.S., while at the same time benefiting smart potential immigrants who lack educational access in their home countries. His idea that Latinos won't assimilate because they're doomed to low IQs for generations is offensive. The most obvious problem with Heritage's study is its economic analysis, not social analysis. The idea that Latinos won't assimilate because they're doomed to low IQs for generations is offensive.

	Many optimistic observers have assumed incorrectly, it turns out  that Hispanic immigrants will follow the same economic trajectory European immigrants did in the early part of the last century.', 'Their children outperformed them, and their children's children were often indistinguishable from the "founding stock." The speed of economic assimilation varied somewhat by ethnic group, but three generations were typically enough to turn "ethnics" into plain old Americans. This would be the preferred outcome for the tens of millions of Hispanic Americans, who are significantly poorer and less educated on average than native whites.. First, the second generation still does not come close to matching the socioeconomic status of white natives.', 'Even if Hispanics were to keep climbing the ladder each generation, their assimilation would be markedly slower than that of other groups., The lack of Hispanic assimilation is likely to create ethnic tensions that threaten our cultural core. Intra-European ethnic divisions have been largely overcome through economic assimilation Irish and Italian immigrants may have looked a bit different from natives, but by the third generation their socioeconomic profiles were similar. Persistent ethnic disparities in socioeconomic status add to a sense of "otherness" felt by minorities outside the economic mainstream.

	Chavez:-- One can start to wonder what does, particularly from Mexico and other parts of Latin America;  citizenship what citizenship actually means; and the power of media spectacles in contemporary life. The Latino Threat Narrative posits that Latinos are not like previous immigrant groups, who ultimately became part of the nation. In their day, each discourse of threat targeted particular immigrant groups and their children. In this sense, the Latino Threat Narrative is part of a grand tradition of alarmist discourse about immigrants and their perceived negative impacts on society.', 'Latinos are an alleged threat because of this history and social identity, which supposedly make their integration difficult and imbue them, particularly Mexicans, with a desire to remain socially apart as they prepare for a reconquest of the U.S. Southwest

	Franklin:-- And since detachments of English from Britain sent to America, will have their places at home so soon supply and increase so largely here; why should the Palatine Germans be suffered to swarm into our settlements, and by herding together establish their languages and manners to the exclusion of ours?, And in Europe, the Spaniards, Italians, French, Russians, and Swedes are generally of what we call a swarthy complexion; as are the Germans also, the Saxons only excepted, who with the English make the principal body of white people on the face of the earth.

	Lodge:--  During this century and until very recent years these same nations, with the addition of Ireland and the Scandinavian countries, have continued to furnish the chief component parts of the immigration which has helped to populate so rapidly the territory of the United States.The mass of immigration, absolutely speaking, continues, of course, to come from the United Kingdom and from Germany, but relatively the immigration from these two sources is declining rapidly in comparison with the immigration from Italy and from the Slavic countries of Russia, Poland, Hungary, and Bohemia, the last of which appears under the head of Austria.

	Glazer & Moynihan : It was reasonable to believe that a new American type would emerge, a new nationality in which it would be a matter of indifference whether a man was of Anglo-Saxon or German or Italian or Jewish origin, and in which indeed, because of the diffusion of populations through all parts of the country and all levels of the social order, and because of the consequent close contact and intermarriage, it would be impossible to make such distinctions. The assimilating power of American society and culture operated on immigrant groups in different ways, to make them, it is true, something they had not been, but still something distinct and identifiable, Conceivably the fact that one's origins can become only a memory suggests the general direction for ethnic groups in the United States toward assimilation and absorption into a homogeneous American mass.